Release notes for knotx 2 (#52)
Knotx/knotx-website: src/render/blog/release-2_0_0.html.md

---
title: Knot.x 2.0 released!
description: We have just released a major release Knot.x 2.0.
author: skejven
keywords: release
order: 1
date: 2019-08-23
knotxVersions:
    - 2.0.0
---
# Knot.x 2.0
Hurray,

Knot.x 2.0 - the open-source integrations framework is finally here!
It comes with the HTTP server, distribution and platform for building backend APIs.
The main changes and features of the second version are:

> - `Design First approach`: We get rid of custom routing definitions in favor of using standards. The [Open API v3](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md) is the way routing is defined in Knot.x server. That means you can start designing API before any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Design First approach`: We get rid of custom routing definitions in favour of using standards. The [Open API v3](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md) specification is language-agnostic, and human readable way a routing is defined.
> The Design First approach advocates for designing the API's contract first before writing any code.
> https://swagger.io/blog/api-design/design-first-or-code-first-api-development/
It addresses distributed systems orchestration challenges, in which fine-grained services define their API's objectives consumed by all your local and distributed teams that can be validated during design definition, before writing any code.
```

line of code is written and use it as the documentation for the developers and clients.

> - `Backend API`: In the previous version, building API using Knot.x could be cumbersome in some cases. With `2.0` we bring completely new experience for building any kind of backend API

Reviewer: This section can be combined with the previous one. I can see three major topics in this area:

- design first approach
- configurable integrations
- stability patterns

Reviewer: With `2.0` we bring completely new experience for building any kind of backend API such as:
- Gateway API: a logic combining data from different sources, introducing caches or fallbacks
- Backend For Frontend: meets SPA challenges and allows to introduce RESTful or GraphQL contracts between your frontend and backend applications
- HTTP / Web API: exposes any kind of datasource with HTTP-based API
